PS Emulator

Chinese menu, support cheat, support 
shortcut keys, support zoom

Archive directory: /usr/local/home/
.pcsx4all/sstates
bios directory: /usr/local/home/
.pcsx4all/bios
Cheats directory: /usr/local/home/
.pcsx4all/cheats

Note: previews is the preview image folder, 
not the game
Select the secondary card ROM Press select 
on the game icon to select Edit Emulator
Select the simulator path, click the upper 
menu until you see the sdcard secondary card
Select the folder and press start to confirm 
the directory and then press start to exit.
Then enter the PS emulator and it will come out

Menu key: right menu key/select+start

The general questions are explained as follows:
1. It is recommended to operate both in-game 
and menu quick read archives.In case of loss 
of in-game save files

2. Button mapping, generally set hot keys 
directly, game buttons The setting does not 
need to be moved, set the button and press to 
save the setting
   
Hot keys Common key combination shortcut keys
select+ A toggle filter
select+ L1 read fast archive
select+ R1 write to fast archive
select+ L2 to enable acceleration, press 
           select to cancel
select+ R2 switch frame number display
select + start to enter the menu
select + X press and hold to accelerate, 
        release to return to original speed

3. GPU general explanation: output scaling - 
the closest point of the software is the 
best speed Hardware is best - consumes 
performance to display game words over 320X240
The body can see a little clearer,

Analog IPU algorithm: fast is the best speed,
Accurate for the best picture - consumes
performance

Jitter: After opening, the picture with 
transition layer will be smooth

4. General explanation of the kernel: the 
bios is set and automatically switched
no need to modify

Analog mode: the default double vibration, 
if there is no button in some games If it is 
reactive, please modify it to a number.

Vibration level: up to 15, adjust the vibration 
intensity according to your own preferences

5. Goldfinger - Most classic games have cheats, 
some have cheats Options may not be useful 
to turn on, please note

The solution to the stuck in the wandering 
adventure game
1. Instant archive first
2. Exit the game, and then enter the game to 
call out the menu to select the kernel settings
3. Change the core settings from rec to int
4. Use the emulator menu to exit, do not use 
the power to exit, then go to the Directory 
of emulators to open games
5. Read the real-time archive, pass the crash
part, and then archive it again
6. Repeat 3,4,5 to change the int back to rec 
and continue to play In a word, change it to 
int, after the crash, change back to rec to 
continue playing But it must be changed by the
independent simulator, otherwise it will not 
take effect. 
